docs: Manual installation of Consul on ECS (#12113)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/ecs/manual-installation.mdx

      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

| Field name    | Type    | Description                                                                                                         |
| ------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name`        | string  | The container name, which should always be `consul-client`.                                                         |
| `image`       | string  | The Consul image. Use our public AWS registry, `public.ecr.aws/hashicorp/consul`, to avoid rate limits.             |

> | `mountPoints` | list    | Must be set as shown above. Volumes are mounted to share information with other containers for task setup.          |

Author: I've added a few paragraphs where relevant to explain volumes / mountPoints and bit better.

| `entrypoint`  | list    | Must be set to a plain shell so that the startup `command` works properly.                                          |
| `command`     | list    | The startup command. See below for details.                                                                         |

The following is the recommended `command` script for the Consul agent.

> This is the same as the above `command` field, but is unescaped and has comments added.

Reviewer: In that case, I think we should explicitly state it in the description for the `command` parameter. Something like: 

```Specifies the contents of the [startup script](#script-anchor-name). Copy and the script into the agent configuration file and format it into valid JSON.```

| Field name           | Type    | Description                                                                                                  |
| -------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `addresses.*`        | strings | Set the DNS, GRPC, and HTTP addresses to `127.0.0.1` to ensure these are not accessible outside of the task. |
| `advertise_addr`     | string  | Must be set to the task IP address so that other Consul agents know how to reach this agent.                 |
| `client_addr`        | string  | Must be set to an interface reacable by other Consul agents.                                                 |
| `datacenter`         | string  | Must be set to the Consul datacenter this task will join.                                                    |
| `leave_on_terminate` | boolean | Must be set to `true` so that the Consul agent leaves the cluster gracefully before exiting.                 |
| `retry_join`         | string  | Must be set to your Consul server location(s) so this agent can join the Consul cluster.                     |

> -> **NOTE**: Use `exec` to start the Consul agent, so that the Consul agent runs as PID 1. This ensures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-> **NOTE**: Use `exec` to start the Consul agent so that the Consul agent runs as PID 1. This ensures
```

    }
  ]
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

| Field name    | Type    | Description                                                                                                         |
| -----------   | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name`        | string  | The container name should be `consul-ecs-mesh-init`.                                                                |
| `image`       | string  | The `consul-ecs` image. Use our public AWS registry, `public.ecr.aws/hashicorp/consul-ecs`, to avoid rate limits.   |
| `mountPoints` | list    | Must be set as show above, so the `consul` and `consul-ecs` binaries can be shared among containers for task setup. |
| `command`     | list    | Set the `["mesh-init"]` so that the container runs the `consul-ecs mesh-init` command.                              |
| `environment` | list    | This must include the `CONSUL_ECS_CONFIG_JSON` variable. See below for details.                                     |

Configuration is passed to the `consul-ecs mesh-init` command in JSON format using the `CONSUL_ECS_CONFIG_JSON` environment variable.

> Here is the sample config from above, expanded to be readable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is the sample config from above, expanded to be readable:
```
Which configuration from above? Maybe there should be a section called "Example Configuration" at the end of the topic that we can refer to?

Author: I didn't add a new section for reference documentation, but I did reword things in this section to clarify a little. See what you think!

      {
        "destinationName": "example-server-app",
        "localBindPort": 1234
      }
    ]
  },
  "service": {
    "checks": [],
    "meta": {},
    "name": "example-client-app",
    "port": 9090,
    "tags": []
  }
}
```

| Field name        | Type   | Description                                                                                                                    |
| ----------------- | ------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `bootstrapDir`    | string | This is the path of a  shared volume the is mounted to other containers, where `mesh-init` will write out Envoy configuration. |
| `proxy.upstreams` | list   | The upstream services that your application calls over the service mesh, if any.                                               |
| `service.name`    | string | The name used to register this service into the Consul service catalog.                                                        |
| `service.port`    | number | The port your application listens on. Set to `0` if your application does not listen on any port.                              |

> | `service.checks`  | list   | Consul [checks](/docs/discovery/checks) to include, to have Consul run health checks against your application. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `service.checks`  | list   | Specifies the Consul health [checks](/docs/discovery/checks) to run against your application. |
```

See the [`consul-ecs JSON Schema`](https://github.com/hashicorp/consul-ecs/blob/main/config/schema.json) for a complete reference of fields.

## `consul-ecs-health-sync` container

Optionally, Consul ECS can sync health checks for this task into Consul checks.

> This allows you to configure a health check for your application in one place, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows you to configure a health check for your application in one place and
```

          "condition": "SUCCESS"
        }
      ],
      "environment": [
        {
          "name": "CONSUL_ECS_CONFIG_JSON",
          "value": "{\"bootstrapDir\":\"/consul\",\"healthSyncContainers\":[\"example-client-app\"],\"proxy\":{\"upstreams\":[{\"destinationName\":\"example-server-app\",\"localBindPort\":1234}]},\"service\":{\"checks\":[],\"meta\":{},\"name\":\"example-client-app\",\"port\":9090,\"tags\":[]}}"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

| Field name    | Type   | Description                                                                                                       |
| ------------- | ------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name`        | string | The container name, which must be `consul-ecs-health-sync`.                                                       |
| `image`       | string | The `consul-ecs` image. Use our public AWS registry, `public.ecr.aws/hashicorp/consul-ecs`, to avoid rate limits. |
| `command`     | list   | Must be set to `["health-sync"]` to run the `consul-ecs health-sync` command.                                     |

> | `dependsOn`   | list   | Must be set as shown above to ensure the `health-sync` container starts after service registration has completed. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `dependsOn`   | list   | Must be set as shown above to ensure the `health-sync` container starts after service registration has completed. |
```
See previous comment about this field.

| Field name    | Type    | Description                                                                                                         |
| ------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name`        | string  | The container name, which should always be `consul-client`.                                                         |
| `image`       | string  | The Consul image. Use our public AWS registry, `public.ecr.aws/hashicorp/consul`, to avoid rate limits.             |
| `mountPoints` | list    | Must be set as shown above. Volumes are mounted to share information with other containers for task setup.          |
| `entrypoint`  | list    | Must be set to a plain shell so that the startup `command` works properly.                                          |
| `command`     | list    | The startup command. See below for details.                                                                         |

The following is the recommended `command` script for the Consul agent.
This is the same as the above `command` field, but is unescaped and has comments added.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<a name="#script-anchor-name">
```
If using the suggestion in the previous comment.

addresses = {
  dns = "127.0.0.1"
  grpc = "127.0.0.1"
  http = "127.0.0.1"
}
advertise_addr = "$ECS_IPV4"
advertise_reconnect_timeout = "15m"
client_addr = "0.0.0.0"
datacenter = "dc1"
enable_central_service_config = true
leave_on_terminate = true
ports {
  grpc = 8502
}
retry_join = ["<consul server location>"]
telemetry {
  disable_compat_1.9 = true
}

EOF

# Start the consul agent.
exec consul agent \
    -data-dir /consul/data \
    -config-file /consul/agent-defaults.hcl
```

The following table describes the values that you should use to configure the `command` script:

| Field name           | Type    | Description                                                                                                  |
| -------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `addresses.*`        | strings | Set the DNS, GRPC, and HTTP addresses to `127.0.0.1` to ensure these are not accessible outside of the task. |
| `advertise_addr`     | string  | Must be set to the task IP address so that other Consul agents know how to reach this agent.                 |

> | `client_addr`        | string  | Must be set to an interface reacable by other Consul agents.                                                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `client_addr`        | string  | Must be set to an interface reachable by other Consul agents.                                                 |
```
